The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Travels and Extraordinary Adventures of
Bob the Squirrel, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Travels and Extraordinary Adventures of Bob the Squirrel

Author: Anonymous

Illustrator: Various

Release Date: October 31, 2017 [EBook #55856]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TRAVELS, ADVENTURES OF BOB THE SQUIRREL ***




Produced by MFR, Barry Abrahamsen and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This book was
produced from images made available by the HathiTrust
Digital Library.)






                           BOB THE SQUIRREL.

    [Illustration: Bob writing his Travels.]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  THE

                                TRAVELS

                                  AND

                        EXTRAORDINARY ADVENTURES

                                   OF

                           BOB THE SQUIRREL.

                   ILLUSTRATED WITH TWELVE ENGRAVINGS

                                   BY

                        _Distinguished Artists._




                             PHILADELPHIA:
                 GEO. S. APPLETON, 148 CHESTNUT STREET.

                               NEW YORK:
                    D. APPLETON & CO., 200 BROADWAY.

                                 1847.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

        Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1846,

                          BY GEO. S. APPLETON,

           in the Clerk’s Office of the District Court of the
           United States, in and for the Eastern District of
                             Pennsylvania.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                PREFACE.


The following little story has been put in the present shape by a
Father; and he takes the privilege of a Preface to say a word in behalf
of children, as REASONABLE BEINGS. Whoever will take pains to talk to
them, and to listen to and understand what they _say_, and what they
_ask_, will find in the first much that will be worth remembering, and
in the second much that will challenge the mature reason to answer. It
is only those who are ignorant of the capacity of infancy, who pronounce
children uninteresting, or who imagine it beneath the intellect of the
adult to converse with the child.

In whatever household it is made a daily practice to hold a conversation
in which the children can participate, for an hour on each day, it will
be found that the time thus spent is more fruitful in good influences
than all the time which is devoted to set and formal instructions can
be; indeed, such twilight conversations, if properly directed, develope
what the child daily learns, by enabling him to apply it. Give a boy a
knife, and a girl a box of colours, and each will at once put the
present to use, and affix a value to it. But give them a task in certain
things which you tell them to commit to memory to apply “when they grow
up,” and they will, in spite of themselves, forget nearly as fast as
they learn, and find the acquisition of knowledge an irksome and
apparently profitless occupation—disheartening and disagreeable.

Converse with them daily, and you put what they acquire to instant
profit. They discover the advantage of education, by being enabled to
make it instantly available in their conversation with their elders.
And, on the other hand, those elders will not fail to perceive that
there are aspects of almost every subject to which children are the
first to call their attention. The little fellow in frock and trowsers
looks under the table, while his seniors see only the cover.

“Stories” are always interesting to children—and are much better _told_
than _read_. A very little fancy will enable a parent, before such kind
and respectful critics as his children, to introduce passages bearing on
the conduct and character of members of his auditory; and reproof or
encouragement, playfully conveyed in this manner, is sure to be
remembered.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                         VOYAGES AND ADVENTURES

                                   OF

                           BOB THE SQUIRREL.

                             --------------

“Now, father! a story—a story!” said Mr. Goodman’s children, as their
father and mother drew up to the fire one winter evening, after the
tea-service was removed—“A story! a story!”

There were two children; one a fine little girl, whose name was Mary,
the other a little boy, whose name was Frank. He looked a little pale,
as if he had been sick, and one of his arms was hung in a handkerchief,
which was fastened round his neck. Why this was done, the little reader
will find out, before the end of the book.

“Well,” said the kind father, willing to oblige his children, “what
shall the story be? About a good boy?”

“No, father,” said little Mary, “we have heard quite enough about good
boys.”

“About a bad one, then?”

“No, sir, if you please,” said Frank. He was very much afraid if his
father began a story about bad boys, that it might come a great deal too
near home. Histories of bad girls and good girls were also objected to,
and Mr. Goodman cut the dispute short by commencing:

“Once upon a time—”

“That’s the way you always begin,” said Mary.

“Well, you wouldn’t have him say ‘_twice_ upon a time,’ would you?”
asked Frank, who tried to be thought _smart_, like a great many other
boys that we see. Now if these little folks could only hear with other
people’s ears, how _very_ little wit there is in some of these attempts
to be satirical, we think they would not be so fond of “taking up” their
brothers and sisters; and trying to be amusing at the expense of their
neighbours. Mr. Goodman _thought_ all this, but did not say it. He
smiled, and continued his story:

“Once upon a time there was a little mischievous—”

“Boy,” whispered Mary.

“Squirrel,” said her father, and Frank laughed with a look of triumph at
Mary, to think he had escaped so nicely.

“Well, this young squirrel felt very large of his age, and was not much
disposed to listen to what his father and mother said to him.”

“Ho! ho!” shouted Frank—“squirrels a-talking!”

“The squirrel’s name was Robert, and his playmates called him Bob, for
shortness. He was sent to a very excellent school, and his father and
mother tried every means to teach him to climb up in the world; but I am
sorry to say that Master Bob was sometimes naughty and disobedient. He
paid little attention to the entreaties of his mother, and the good
advice of his father, but was continually running away, and getting into
all manner of troubles and difficulties. His father and mother lived in
a very large and respectable old oak, where he might have been as happy
as the day is long. Close to this oak was a large lake—”

“Such a one as our Frank went sailing upon?” asked Mary.

“Very much, I dare say,” said the father, and went on with the story.

“There were plenty of fine apple and nut trees near his home, and a
delightful large playground for Master Bob, all round the tree. Robert’s
father and mother always loved to see him playing here where he was safe
and happy, for he was their only son.”

“Had he a sister?” asked Mary.

“Yes,” replied Mr. Goodman, “one.”

“Oh, I say this is not fair, father!” cried Frank.

“_What?_” asked his father.

“Oh, _you_ know what I mean,” answered Frank, pretending to be very much
displeased, although he was really as anxious to hear the rest as his
sister Mary was. The parents exchanged pleased glances, and Mr. Goodman
continued:

“The peaceable life of a well-disposed and well-behaved young squirrel
did not seem to suit the temper and disposition of Master Bob. He was
continually running away from home, and putting his good father and
mother in trouble to know what had become of him; and at last he wished,
like some bad boys I have heard of, that he could get away from the care
and control of his parents altogether. He saw that some wild young
squirrels of his acquaintance, whose friends did not do their duty by
them, were left to go when they pleased, and come home when it suited
them; and he desired, in search of the largest liberty, to go to sea.”

“Oh father!” interrupted Mary, “that’s what Frank is always a-saying!”

Frank gave his sister a look which was intended to be very cross; but it
ended in a laugh, and Mr. Goodman went on with the story.

“The little squirrel thought he should like to take a trip over the
lake. He was tired, he said, of always seeing the same trees, and the
same green grass, and he wanted to find out what the rest of the world
was made of. His father and mother charged him not to go, and his father
warned him that he would meet in the world many artful and cruel
enemies, and that he was too young to guard against danger. Master Bob,
who thought he knew what was right, was fully determined upon going.
Wilful boys—”

“Boys, father?” interrupted Frank, with a curious look.

“Squirrels, I should say,” answered his father; “but boys are just as
bad.

“Wilful and naughty young squirrels are never willing to listen to the
advice of their elders, but choose to try for themselves. So when Master
Bob found he could not get permission, he determined to go without. He
stole away from home, and making a raft or boat out of the bark of a
willow, loaded it with nuts as his provision. He then launched his boat,
and skipped on board, with as much importance as the rocking of his
crazy vessel would permit. His parents, who discovered what he was doing
too late to stop him, called after him; but he paid no heed, and his
father then told him that he really hoped he would meet difficulty
enough to bring him back home, in his senses.”

“Be still!” shouted Frank to his sister.

“Why, what’s the matter?” asked Mrs. Goodman.

[Illustration: Bob leaves Home.]

“Mary might look at father, when he is talking, and quit laughing at
me!”

“The old squirrels, when they found they could not check their undutiful
child, ran up into the branches of their tree, to see him fairly off.
Notwithstanding his undutiful behaviour, they hoped he would learn good
from his travels. The bad conduct of children makes parents bitterly
grieve, but cannot kill their affection. Captain Robert Squirrel, as the
vain Master Bob now styled himself, hoisted his sail with great
pomposity—”

“What is pomposity, father?” inquired Frank.

“Why, parade, or dignity, or consequence; or, as you boys say, _brag_;
such as a little fellow I know of shows, when he has his tin sword, his
wooden musket, and his noisy drum, all at once, and fancies himself a
whole regiment, with a band of music.”

“Oh, is that all?” asked Frank; “I thought pomposity might be a name for
the mast.”

Father laughed and tried to go on with the story; but Frank was curious
now to know what kind of a sail the squirrel had.

“Why, it was a sail _au naturel_, as the French would say; a domestic
arrangement entirely, which Bob always took with him, wherever he went.
And, by the way, my dear children,” said Mr. Goodman, “we cannot too
much admire the goodness of God in furnishing the lower animals with the
quality called _instinct_. Man has _reason_ for his guide, because he is
called upon to act as a responsible being.”

“What is responsible, father?” asked Frank.

“Well, really, the more I explain, the deeper I get into difficulty,”
said Mr. Goodman, smiling. “A responsible being is one who knows right
from wrong, and will be held to answer for what he does; now, animals
are not responsible—”

“Why, then,” asked Mary, “do people whip horses?”

“Because _instinct_ leads horses to fear blows; and therefore, instinct
makes them shun what has caused them a whipping before. But if I do not
make haste, we shall not get done with the story until bed-time.

[Illustration: Bob’s Voyage.]

“Bob crossed his paws knowingly before him, and had nothing to do but
sit still, and be blown along. It was now fine weather with Captain
Robert. He looked upon the sky, and the water, and the shore, as if they
all belonged to him, and he was merely taking a voyage of survey over
his possessions. Every thing attracted his attention; and he made
himself very happy, and very much at home in his excursion.

“The fine weather continued for two days and two nights, and Captain
Robert Squirrel breakfasted, dined, and supped at his own hours, and
helped himself first, because there was nobody else to eat. He thought
it was mighty fine not to have to wait until his elders were served, and
only wondered that he could have been willing to submit so long to his
parents, when, by launching out into the world, he could be so much more
of a hero, and his own master besides.”

Mrs. Goodman here watched her son’s eyes, and found by their animated
expression that Master Frank was very much, just now, of the opinion of
Captain Robert. Once, indeed, Frank’s lips parted, as if to speak; but
he wisely thought he would wait, and hear a little more of the
squirrel’s adventures, before he committed himself.

“This was all very fine,” continued Mr. Goodman, “but, unluckily,
sailors have not the direction of the weather. If they had, any old lady
might go to sea, without losing the starch from her nightcap, and any
rattle-headed boy could launch away, whenever he was tired of his own
good home. On the third day, a furious storm spoiled his breakfast.
Heigho! thought Bob, this _is_ life, and something like! So he kept all
sail spread, in defiance of wind and weather, and fancied he was going
ahead at a fine rate. But at last his pride was upset; Captain Robert,
provisions, and all, were spilt into the water, and his little boat was
made a complete wreck. He had to swim for it; and if his father had not
taught him how, he would have been in a sad plight.

[Illustration: Bob Shipwrecked.]

“Captain Robert did not feel like Captain any more, but like plain Bob,
and very sorry at that, and heartily did he wish that he was safe and
sound at home again, and in the tree he used to despise so much.
Thoroughly broken down, tired, and almost dead with cold, he succeeded,
at last, in getting to the shore.

“But it requires a great deal to teach wisdom to a discontented
squirrel, or to a disobedient boy. So the shipwrecked Captain Robert
hardly found himself safe on land, before his vanity returned again; and
he was rather pleased than otherwise to have a shipwreck to boast of.
What matters a little drenching? he said. What great squirrel ever went
free of dangers? How many famous navigators have been cast upon unknown
shores!

“But while he tried to make light of his misfortunes, and to laugh at
his distress, night came, and found him unprovided with food and
lodging. The disobedient child, who could treat with contempt the tears
of his mother, was not able to put aside, so easily, the cravings of his
stomach; and Bob, like many naughty boys, began to think how convenient
it would be to have parents, if he could only neglect them always,
except when he wanted to eat or to sleep. He turned his steps toward a
neighbouring forest, and was fortunate enough to encounter there a kind
old lady in Dame Rabbit.

[Illustration: Bob entertained by the Rabbit.]

“She saw that he was a runaway, by his looks; but, good and obliging
creature that she was, she knew that even a runaway must eat. So Captain
Robert, with all his pride and dignity, was glad to accept the
hospitality and bounty of the poor old dame; just as I have known some
other children to run away from home, where they had plenty to eat, and
a nice bed to sleep in, and to trespass upon the charity of those who
have enough to do to provide for their own.”

“Has black Jane any children?” asked little Mary.

“Ask Frank,” said his mother, “I believe he has spent a night there.”

Poor Frank! He made no answer to this teasing, and Mr. Goodman again
resumed the narrative.

[Illustration: Bob dines with the Rabbit.]

“Dame Rabbit gave him a nice supper, and a comfortable lodging, and in
the morning Bob took leave of his kind hostess, and determined upon
climbing a high hill which he saw at a distance. Now browsing a little
on the grass, as boys pick apples or berries by the way; now smoothing
his fur a little, which had suffered some in the shipwreck, as runaways
scrape off a little mud at a time; and now staring about him, as truants
generally do, to divert their conscience from its reproaches, Bob found
the sun already set, when he reached the top of the hill. There he was,
without any supper, too late to go back, and not a tree in sight in
which he could make his bed for the night.

“He began to think that the independence for which he had longed was no
such very desirable thing, after all; and he thought of the times when
he so very foolishly ran off at bed-time, and put his good mother to so
much trouble to compel him to take his own comfortable rest. What could
he do? All his boasted freedom could not help him, and he was too happy
when he discovered the residence of Sir Hare, of whom he very penitently
begged supper and lodging. Sir Hare looked very curiously at him—”

“Did he tell him he would send him to jail, as a little vagrant?” asked
Mary.

“Why, what put that in your head, child?” said her father.

“Oh, nothing; only it’s what Squire Jones—”

“Do be still interrupting!” shouted Frank. “We can’t take any sense of
father’s story.”

“_We_, indeed,” said Mrs. Goodman, laughing till she almost cried, while
Mr. Goodman continued:

“Sir Hare looked very earnestly and suspiciously at the young wanderer.
If he had given him what he needed most, Bob would have been warmed with
a good whipping; but as people are not very apt to volunteer in a
disagreeable duty, Master Bob did not receive what would have done him
more good than his supper. If he had been severely punished that night
by Sir Hare, he might have humbly asked to be sent home to his parents.

“But as Master Bob did not receive the whipping he merited, his supper
and comfortable lodging made him as bold and foolish as ever. Having
found a lodging two nights with the charitable, he thought now that all
he had to do was to enjoy himself all day, and trust to fortune that
some good animal would give him a bed at night. So he wandered and
capered about, as the whim took him, roving here, wandering there, and
taking as little thought or care of himself as if he had his mother at
hand, to run home to, as soon as he needed rest.

“Before noon, however, he was pretty well tired and rather hungry. The
chance food that runaways pick up is not like the wholesome fare that
children receive at home, and in Bob’s hunger, he stumbled upon some
articles which made him sick. Young gentlemen are very apt to think that
their mothers do not know much, and that their fathers are very little
wiser; but if Bob’s mother had been with him he would not have poisoned
himself with wild ivy.”

[Illustration: Bob Embarrassed]

“Wild ivy!” said Mary, laughing, and pinching her brother’s elbow,
“that’s what Frank ate!”

“Oh quit!” cried Frank, and his father went on again.

“Weary, and not quite so confident, Master Bob wandered about in the
afternoon, and soon began to have his fears whether a lodging was to be
had that night for the asking. He met no respectable animal to take pity
on the runaway, and although a snake or two would have been glad to have
taken him in, he happened to know enough to think their kindness would
not have been much to his profit.

“An obliging porcupine did indeed offer him part of her den, assuring
him he would not be at all in the way. But Bob soon found that if he was
not in the way of the porcupines, they were very much in his, with their
sharp quills, and he was obliged to take to the open air for it.

“To add to his discomfort, it rained smartly. Crouched down in the
grass, soaking wet, and half frozen, Captain Bob would very gladly have
given up his freedom, for shelter in his mother’s arms.

“He did not cling to his cold lodgings very long after daybreak, though
like some other young people, he used to like very well to cling to his
bed, after the breakfast bell had rung at home.”

“Oh ho!” cried Frank, “breakfast bells in a rabbit’s nest!”

[Illustration: Bob is sorry for leaving Home.]

“Spirit-broken and cowed, at early dawn he recommenced his wanderings.
The storm continued through the whole day. The country was deserted and
wild. Not a tree afforded food or shelter, and scanty indeed was the
fare that the poor squirrel could find.

“Completely cured of his desire to travel, Captain Robert would gladly
have taken the way back to his own green forest, and his father’s house.
He looked on every side for some friend who might direct him,—but who
would be strolling about in such weather as this, except foolish,
disobedient, wandering Robert?

“Troubles never come singly to the truant; and while our poor squirrel
was looking for the way home, and thinking of nothing else, he came very
near being saved the trouble of looking further.

“A hungry, mischievous fox, saw and almost caught him. In spite of his
fatigue and hunger, unlucky Bob had to skip for it now. The fox was too
fast for him on the level ground, and Master Robert just saved his
distance, by running fleetly up some ragged rocks, where the fox could
not follow.

“Here was a pretty case for Robert the bold captain, who despised
danger, and laughed at the tears of his mother, and the warnings of his
father. His fine bushy tail dragging on the wet earth, his paws torn and
bleeding with running among the sharp stones, and not a bit of food, or
a drop of drink, to be found on the barren rock to which he had been
compelled to betake himself for safety.”

“Was the fox a hound, father?” asked Mary.

“No, child, I imagine not,” answered Mr. Goodman, “A hound is a dog.”

“Oh, that’s what I mean—a dog fox—no, a fox-hound,” said Mary, clapping
her little hands. “It was Squire Jones’s fox-hounds that chased our
Frank up into the hay-loft.”

“Captain Robert Squirrel’s plight was a bad one, indeed,” continued Mr.
Goodman. “He feared to descend, cold, shivering, and all exposed as he
was; for though he could not see the fox, who could tell out of what
hole his cunning and watchful enemy would pop, to seize him? And if he
stayed where he was, the chances were that he would die of cold and
hunger.

[Illustration: Bob pursued by a Fox.]

“Now, then, Bob was compelled to confess his faults, and to own to
himself how foolish and wicked he had been, while every moment he
imagined his foe was watching his distress from some sly corner, and
making up his mind what sauce was best to eat squirrels with.

“‘Oh, dear!’ sobbed the poor runaway, ‘if I was only at home, in my
native forest, and in my father’s tree, I would never run away again,
nor wander off from my parents! There is the hole in the old oak, my
mother’s cupboard, all filled with apples and nuts, and nice acorns for
a relish, and they have no need to-day to wet so much as the tips of
their ears in the rain! And here am I, half-drowned, and starving
besides! There is my comfortable bed of dry, sweet leaves, and no
dangers near it, while here I must run for my life, without a tree to
take refuge in, and no rest for my weary limbs, and no sleep for my
eyelids! Oh, my dear, wise father! what a wicked fool I was to scorn
your advice! Oh, my poor, dear mother! How much better I should have
fared, if I had minded your entreaties!’

“All his tears, however, did not help the matter any, but rather made it
worse. The more he thought of his home, the worse the present place
seemed; and the more he lamented himself, the more his conscience smote
him. While he was thus deploring his folly, and nearly blind with grief,
an enemy came from a new and unexpected quarter.

“A raven, who, like the poor squirrel, was half famished, made a dive
after him; and Bob, who had taken a high place to get away from the
beast, was glad to hurry down to escape the talons of the bird.

[Illustration: Bob is carried off by a Crow.]

“Away he scampered, and the raven after him; fear giving him new
strength, and the terror of the raven making him forget the fox.

“But that hungry gentleman, who had merely taken a nap with one eye
open, while he waited for the squirrel to come down from his perch, was
awakened by the outcry which was made by the pursuer and the pursued,
and the poor squirrel found himself in a double danger. The fox was at
his heels, and the raven was over his head. If there had been a tree by
which he could have got away from the fox, it would not have saved him
from the raven; and if there had been a hole which would have protected
him from the bird, the beast would have followed him into it.

“Which of the two deaths he would die seemed now the only choice left
for him; and the raven at last settled that matter, by catching him up,
and giving him a sail in the air, as an offset to his former sail on the
water.

“Master Reynard, the fox, was sadly disappointed at thus losing his
dinner, and ran along underneath them several rods, in the hope that the
raven would find the load too much, and let poor Bob down again, to be
welcomed by his foxship’s fine rows of sharp teeth.

“But there was no such good luck that day for the fox. The squirrel,
weak, and famished, and unresisting, was an easy burthen for the raven.
Away she flew, over mountain and valley, and rock and field, making
herself quite happy, in the expectation of the fine treat the squirrel
would afford her young ones. There is, however, many a slip betwixt cup
and lip.

“An eagle, who had watched the whole affair, thought he would have a
word in the matter. The King of Birds determined to seize both the
captor and captive; so, sweeping along, he gave the raven a furious
blow, but missed half his prize. The raven let poor Bob go, and down he
went, down, down, down. Happily, the eagle left off hunting the
squirrel, to pursue the raven.”

“What was Bob thinking of, when he was falling?” asked Frank.

“I declare! What a child!” cried Mary. “As if any body could think, when
he was falling!”

“But they can, though, Miss Mary,” said Frank, “and I know it!”

[Illustration: Bob’s Escape.]

“How?” asked his father.

“Why, when I was falling from the loft—”

“Where the fox-hounds had chased you?” asked Mrs. Goodman.

Frank blushed as he answered “Yes, mother.” And then he added, “I
thought a thousand years in one minute!”

Father and mother, and Mary, and even Frank, had a hearty laugh, and
then Mr. Goodman went on with the story.

“Fortunately for Bob—or, I ought to say, providentially, for Providence
takes care even of the naughty, and gives them a chance to try again,
when they are really sorry, and mean to do better—providentially for the
squirrel, he fell into a thick tree, where he lodged, and the leaves and
branches concealed him from his cruel enemy. He was torn, and bloody,
and weak, and could only use one fore paw, for the other was broken.”

“Ho!” shouted little Frank, “Now I say you ar’n’t fair!—You said you
wouldn’t tell _my_ story!”

“But you are not a squirrel, Frank,” said his mother, laughing.
“Besides, I did not hear your father make any such promise.”

“Well,” said Frank, a little puzzled, “he looked the promise.”

“You are a physiognomist, Frank,” said his father, smiling.

“No, sir, I am sure I am not,” said Frank; “but, what kind of a person
is a phys—say it again, father! I know I can’t be one, because I can’t
tell what it means.”

“It is one who reads faces, Frank; and children and dogs are the best in
the world.”

“Oh, let’s have the rest of the story, father,” said little Mary.

“Well,” the father resumed, “Bob fell asleep with fatigue, and the
stunning effect of the fall. When he opened his eyes, what was his joy
to find himself in his own little bed. His father was near him, and his
mother, who was glad to get her little bad child back, sat at the foot
of the bed, with her hands to her eyes, crying.

[Illustration: Bob at Home again.]

“They had so much pity for him, that they did not speak one word of
reproof, because they thought he had suffered enough. The doctor came,
and hurt him more in setting his arm—”

“_Arm_, father?” said Frank.

“_Paw_, I mean. The doctor hurt Bob more than he hurt himself in
falling; but he behaved like a little hero, and promised never, never,
never to run away any more!”

“Did he keep the promise?” asked little Mary.

“We don’t know,” answered her mother, “but have got to see, yet.”

“There! there!” said Frank, “I knew it would turn out to be me! Didn’t I
run away, and take John Dory’s boat?”

“And get upset,” said his sister.

“And swim to land, like a good fellow,” said Frank.

“And beg a lodging and supper, half-drowned and half-starved, of old
black Jane,” added Mary.

“And get chased by Squire Jones’s dogs,” said Frank.

“Up into the hay-loft,” added Mary.

“And fall and break my arm,” said Frank, with a look at his now useless
limb in the handkerchief.

“Yes, my poor boy,” said his father, drawing Frank between his knees,
and parting the hair affectionately over his forehead. “All these
mishaps certainly befell you, in consequence of your playing truant.

“I read this little story I have been telling you, a great many years
ago, when I was a little boy, as you are now. When I began to-night, I
was going to tell it as I read it, as near as I could recollect; but it
seemed to make so much amusement for you all, that I altered it a little
as I went along.

“You have suffered severely for disobedience; but you must thank your
Father in Heaven for preserving your life, and for giving you a lesson
in your youth, which you will never forget, I hope, let you live as long
as you may.”

                             --------------

And now, having heard the father’s story, and the children’s comments,
let us hope that the lesson will not be lost upon any of our little
readers. Children look only to present amusement, being unable, even if
they desired so to do, to understand causes, or to predict consequences.
They may always feel sure that what their parents enjoin, is the result
of knowledge and experience; and they are in duty bound to have so much
confidence in those who have them in charge, as to obey without
hesitation and without doubt.

The story of Robert the Squirrel is what is called a FABLE; and it
relates things which could not be true of a squirrel, but which may be
true of little boys and girls.

The _instinct_ of the young squirrel leads him to do what is best
without so much instruction from his parents as little boys and girls
need; but our _reason_, while it shows us how to do right, is apt often
to invent excuses for us when we do wrong.

As children live longer, they discover every day the cause of
prohibitions and directions which they could not understand when they
were given. There are many things of which the best of us have to be
ashamed as we grow older; but among these, obedience and kindness to
parents never are found.




                                THE END.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       ATTRACTIVE AND INSTRUCTIVE

                      PUBLICATIONS FOR THE YOUNG,

                              PUBLISHED BY

                          GEORGE S. APPLETON,

                 No. 148 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILADELPHIA.

                             --------------

                            VERY LITTLE TALES

                                   FOR

                          VERY LITTLE CHILDREN.

   FIRST SERIES—In words of single syllables of three and four letters.
 SECOND SERIES—In single syllables of four and five letters. Illustrated
   with Engravings. Price 37½ cents each; or with gilt edges, 50 cents.
            “The type is about four times as large as usual.”

                             --------------

                      THE CHILD’S OWN STORY BOOK;

                                  OR,

                  TALES AND DIALOGUES FOR THE NURSERY.

                            BY MRS. JERRAM.

   With Eight beautiful Engravings. One vol. square 16mo. Cloth gilt,
                  50 cents; with gilt edges, 63 cents.

            “These little stories have an excellent moral.”

                             --------------

                            LUCY AND ARTHUR;

   A Book for Children. Square 16mo., with Six beautiful large Cuts.
            Cloth gilt, 50 cents; with gilt edges, 63 cents.

                             --------------

                             HOLYDAY TALES;

  Containing pleasing Stories for the Young. With two fine Engravings.
        Square 16mo. Cloth gilt, 38 cents; gilt edges, 50 cents.
                       “Suitable for any season.”

                             --------------

                          THE CHILD’S DELIGHT;

                      A PRESENT FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.

                           EDITED BY A LADY.

 With six beautifully-coloured Steel Plates. Square 16mo., half cloth,
    with painted cover, 50 cents; cloth gilt, 63 cents, gilt edges.
           “The prettiest work for children ever published.”

                             --------------

                             CLEVER STORIES

                       FOR CLEVER BOYS AND GIRLS.

                           BY MRS. SHERWOOD.

Containing “Think Before You Act;” “Duty is Safety, or Troublesome Tom;”
and “Jack, the Sailor Boy.” Illustrated with numerous Engravings. Square
16mo.; elegantly bound in muslin, 50 cents. Either of the three Tales to
be had separately, bound in muslin, price 25 cents each.

                             --------------

                         THE PRIZE STORY BOOK;

                 A NEW BOOK OF FAIRY TALES AND LEGENDS.

Consisting of Tales translated from the German, French, and Italian,
with select Tales from the English. Very many Engravings from new
designs. One thick volume, 16mo., in cloth, extra gilt, 75 cents.

                             --------------

                              MORAL TALES.

                          BY MARIA EDGEWORTH.

Containing “Forester;” “The Prussian Vase;” “The Good Aunt;”
“Mademoiselle Panache;” “Angelina, or L’Amie Inconnue;” “The Good French
Governess;” and “The Knapsack.” Embellished with six original designs by
Darley, engraved in the finest style. One thick volume, 18mo., 540
pages, bound in embossed muslin extra, 75 cents.

                             --------------

                        RHYMES FOR THE NURSERY.

              BY JANE TAYLOR, AUTHOR OF “ORIGINAL POEMS.”

        New edition, with sixteen beautiful engravings. Bound in
    muslin, extra gilt, 50 cents; or with coloured plates, 63 cents.

                             --------------

                             THE LOG CABIN;

                                  OR,

                         THE WORLD BEFORE YOU.

          BY THE AUTHOR OF “THREE EXPERIMENTS OF LIVING,” ETC.

       One neat volume 18mo., with a steel frontispiece. Bound in
                       embossed cloth, 50 cents.

                             --------------

                         THE CHILD’S FAVOURITE;

                        A PRESENT FOR THE YOUNG.

                               BY A LADY.

     Square 16mo. Embellished with 12 large engravings, beautifully
         coloured. Richly bound in embossed cloth, extra gilt,
               50 cents; gilt sides and edges, 75 cents.

                             --------------

                          CLARA’S AMUSEMENTS.

                          BY MRS. ANNA BACHE,

           Author of “Stories for Clara,” “Little Clara,” &c.

   One volume square 16mo., with large engravings designed by Darley.
                 Bound in fancy muslin extra, 50 cents.

                             --------------

                                THE LIFE

                                  AND

                       PERAMBULATIONS OF A MOUSE.

                               BY A LADY.

    One volume small 4to. Embellished with ten exquisite designs by
          Croome. Splendidly bound in fancy muslin, 63 cents.
                    Gilt sides and edges, 75 cents.

                             --------------

                       THE BLOSSOMS OF MORALITY;

      Intended for the Amusement and Instruction of Young People.

 Beautifully illustrated with twenty-three designs by Darley, elegantly
                   bound in muslin, 18mo., 50 cents.

                             --------------

                  LITTLE LESSONS FOR LITTLE LEARNERS.

                            BY MRS. BARWELL.

   A beautiful volume, square 16mo., with thirty engravings. Prettily
                 bound in fancy muslin extra, 50 cents.

                             --------------

                              THE TRAVELS

           AND EXTRAORDINARY ADVENTURES OF BOB THE SQUIRREL.

   Square 16mo., with twelve charming engravings, prettily coloured.
           Beautifully bound in fancy muslin, 50 cents. Gilt
                       sides and edges, 75 cents.

                             --------------

                             POPULAR TALES

          CONTAINING “MURAD THE UNLUCKY,” “THE MANUFACTURERS,”
                     “THE CONTRAST,” “THE GRATEFUL
                        NEGRO,” AND “TO-MORROW.”

                          BY MARIA EDGEWORTH.

   One handsome volume, 18mo., of five hundred pages, with designs by
           Croome, bound in embossed muslin extra, 75 cents.

                             --------------

                            GEORGE’S JOURNEY

                       TO THE LAND OF HAPPINESS.

     One volume small 4to. Embellished with sixteen large pictures
           beautifully coloured. Richly bound in fancy muslin
                62 cents. Gilt sides and edges 75 cents

                             --------------

                       THE FIRE-SIDE STORY BOOK.

                           BY MISS EDGEWORTH.

Containing “Waste Not, Want Not; or, Two Strings to your Bow;” “Lazy
Lawrence; or, Industry and Idleness Contrasted,” and “The Bracelets; or,
Amiability and Industry Rewarded.” Square 16mo., with six beautiful
designs by Croome; fancy muslin extra, 50 cents.

                             --------------

                           GRANDMAMMA EASY’S

                  NEW TOY-BOOKS FOR ALL GOOD CHILDREN.

                        TWELVE DIFFERENT KINDS.

                             --------------

  LITTLE TOM THUMB AND HIS MOTHER, 8 engravings.
  PRETTY STORIES ABOUT THE ALPHABET, 26 engravings.
  MULTIPLICATION IN A MERRY STYLE.
  THE COMICAL COURTSHIP AND SAD FATE OF DADDY LONGLEGS.
  LITTLE JACK HORNER, AND THE CONTENTS OF HIS PIE.
  MICHAELMAS DAY, OR, THE FATE OF POOR MOLLY GOOSEY.
  THE ALDERMAN’S FEAST, A NEW ALPHABET.
  THE QUEEN OF HEARTS, AND THE STOLEN TARTS.
  PICTORIAL BIBLE ALPHABET, with three-inch letters.
  TOY-SHOP DROLLERIES, OR, WONDERS OF A TOY-SHOP.
  TRAVELS OF MATTY MACARONI, THE LITTLE ORGAN BOY.
  BIBLE STORY OF JOSEPH AND HIS BRETHREN.

These splendid toy-books are all illustrated with unusually large size
pictures, brightly coloured, and printed with type expressly adapted for
the young folks. They are harmlessly entertaining, or moral and
instructive. The delight with which the youngsters seize upon them is
the best evidence that they are exactly

                     SUITED TO PLEASE THEIR TASTES!

                             --------------

                          WASTE NOT, WANT NOT;

                                  OR,

                        TWO STRINGS TO YOUR BOW.

  Square 16mo., with illustrations by Croome, and beautifully bound in
                             fancy muslin.

                             --------------

                             THE BRACELETS;

                                  OR,

                   AMIABILITY AND INDUSTRY REWARDED.

  Square 16mo., with illustrations by Croome, and beautifully bound in
                             fancy muslin.

                             --------------

                             LAZY LAWRENCE;

                                  OR,

                   INDUSTRY AND IDLENESS CONTRASTED.

  Square 16mo., with illustrations by Croome, and beautifully bound in
                             fancy muslin.

                             --------------

For children of all ages in town or country, these most admirably
instructive yet amusing Tales by Miss Edgeworth, are exactly the books
that every Parent, Teacher, or Guardian, should place in their hands.
From “Waste Not, Want Not,” they will learn frugality without
stinginess. The story of “Lazy Lawrence” shows in vivid colours the
pleasures attending industry, and the bad effects of idleness; and in
the tale of “The Bracelets,” seeing the happiness resulting from
amiability and industry, they will strive to emulate the little heroines
of the story. No child should be without them.

                             --------------

                                  THE

                         FIRE-SIDE STORY BOOK:

                               CONTAINING

            “WASTE NOT, WANT NOT,” “LAZY LAWRENCE,” AND “THE
                              BRACELETS.”

  One volume, square 16mo. with six beautiful illustrations by Croome,
                  and elegantly bound in muslin extra.

                             --------------

Miss Edgeworth’s stories in a cheap style! Ah! with how much delight
will many receive the news that they can now purchase some of Maria
Edgeworth’s admirable tales, which have heretofore been out of their
reach by the high price asked for them. If parents wish their children
to become truly virtuous and happy; to be modest and free from vanity;
to have excellent and practical common sense; to be honest and upright
in their dealings with their playmates or as merchants at a future
period; to be kind and affectionate; to learn habits of neatness and
frugality; to be industrious by showing them how cheerful and happy
people are whilst employed; to be forgiving and benevolent; to have
strength of mind to avoid temptation and bear up against the reverses of
life; in short, to become rational and thinking creatures, and perfect
gentlemen and ladies, in the true sense of the word, let them place in
their hands the tales by Miss Edgeworth, which will not only instruct
but amuse them.

                             --------------

                      THE CHILD’S OWN STORY BOOK:

                                   OR

                  TALES AND DIALOGUES FOR THE NURSERY.

                            BY MRS. JERRAM,

                     (Late Jane Elizabeth Holmes.)

Illustrated with numerous Engravings. Elegantly bound, with gold stamp
on the side. New Edition, with additional embellishments. Price 50
Cents.

AUTHOR’S PREFACE.—In writing the following pages, my most earnest desire
has been to awaken in the hearts of little children, kindly and
affectionate feelings towards each other, submission and loving
confidence towards their parents, and reverence and love towards God.
This I have attempted in describing scenes and objects, most of which
must be familiar to every child. The language I have used is the easiest
I could command, so that a child of three years old may understand it.

“One short sentence at the end of the story respecting ‘the little plant
that grew in a deep valley,’ will fairly unfold the character and spirit
of the book.

‘This simple white blossom is like a good little child, dwelling not in
the sunshine of pride and self-conceit, but in the calm shade of
meekness, in the deep valley of submission. Such a little one will the
Lord of Heaven behold and love.’

Wayward as we ourselves may be, we wish that our children may be all
that is amiable, and good, and one way to make them so is to put the
‘Child’s Own Story Book’ in their hands; they will imbibe knowledge and
strengthen virtue by the perusal of it.“—_Courier and Enquirer._

“Our juvenile friends will be thankful to the publisher for so beautiful
a present. It is a book which parents may safely put into the hands of
their children.”—_Banner of the Cross._

                             --------------

                       A NEW BOOK OF FAIRY TALES.

                                  THE

                           PRIZE STORY BOOK,

                               CONSISTING

                           CHIEFLY OF TALES,

            TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN, FRENCH, AND ITALIAN;

                             TOGETHER WITH

                     SELECT TALES FROM THE ENGLISH.

         ILLUSTRATED WITH NUMEROUS ENGRAVINGS FROM NEW DESIGNS

          One thick volume, 16mo., neatly bound in cloth gilt.

                             --------------

“_Should children and young people be permitted to read fairy tales?_”
Those who are best qualified by learning, piety, and extensive
observation of mankind, to form a correct judgment in the case, reply
yes, by all means. The reason is obvious; well chosen fictions of this
class improve the heart by delighting the fancy. They strew the path of
instruction with the most brilliant flowers of imagination. They approve
themselves naturally to all classes of readers. They compose a part of
the literature of all nations—and that the most ancient and most
rational part. They form a delightful portion of every well informed
person’s recollections of childhood. They have become like the classical
mythology of Greece and Rome, the subject of allusions throughout all
modern literature. Every well read scholar understands these allusions,
and every young person should qualify himself to understand them by
reading the stories, while the memory is fresh and strong.

                             --------------

                            LUCY AND ARTHUR;

                          A BOOK FOR CHILDREN.

                 ILLUSTRATED WITH NUMEROUS ENGRAVINGS.

                       Elegantly bound in muslin.

                           PRICE FIFTY CENTS.

CONTENTS.—I. The Nursery. II. The Little Black Pony. III. The Little
Gardens. IV. The Day’s Work. V. The Walk. VI. Mamma’s Stories. VII.
Papa’s Stories. VIII. Sunday.

“This is a book in advance of the ‘Very Little Tales,’ and intended for
older lads and misses, to whom it will doubtless prove an acceptable
gift.”

“The embellishments are well engraved, and the ornamental work is in a
novel style, quite attractive and appropriate. The humorous and pathetic
verses scattered through the volume, will prove a very popular feature
among the young people. Mr. Appleton has judged well in commencing a
series of juvenile books, in which the matter and the embellishments are
made the objects of sedulous attention. Such juvenile books are wanted;
and parents are willing to make some little sacrifice in order that the
moral and intellectual tastes of their children may be gratified with
appropriate food.”—_U. S. Gazette._

“It is delightful to survey the increasing facilities for the diffusion
of knowledge, and especially among children. Not always, it is true,
does the enlargement of intellect insure the increase of virtue, but it
is an efficient method to counteract the tendency to vice, and to
elevate the taste above the grovelling pursuits of life. It was a wise
saying of Newton—‘if I want a bushel of wheat without any tares, all I
have to do is to fill the bushel first with wheat.’ Thus, we say, if it
is desired to keep a child in the path of security and uprightness, fill
its mind with the principles of love, of decorum and truth.”—_Courier
and Enquirer._

                             --------------

                          GEORGE S. APPLETON,

                  BOOKSELLER, PUBLISHER AND IMPORTER,

                        No. 148 CHESTNUT STREET,

                          OPPOSITE THE ARCADE,

                             PHILADELPHIA,

        HAS CONSTANTLY ON HAND A CHOICE STOCK OF ENGLISH BOOKS,

In Theology, History, Biography, Poetry, Voyages and Travels,
Architecture and Engineering. His stock of American publications is
unusually large, comprising all the important publications of the day,
including a large assortment of Miscellaneous, School, Classical and
Juvenile Books.

All new publications received as soon as published.

Strangers visiting the city would do well to call and examine his
extensive stock in every department of Literature.

Persons at a distance desiring any particular work published in Europe
or America, can have the same carefully forwarded.

Booksellers, Country Merchants and News Agents, supplied with Books at a
very liberal discount.

All orders will meet with prompt attention.

Gentlemen forming libraries will do well to favour him with their
orders, as they will probably save 20 per cent. in price, and will have
the satisfaction of having their orders carefully attended to.

☞ Books imported to order by every mail steamer. Single copies with the
same care and despatch as quantities. Persons sending an order for any
particular work published in England, can rely upon receiving the same
in about six weeks from the time of the departure of the steamer.

G. S. A.’s Literary Bulletin, containing a List of all Books published
each month in Great Britain, together with a selected list of
Continental Books, with the prices affixed, and other important literary
information, is published immediately on the arrival of the steamers, on
the first of every month. As this periodical is furnished GRATIS,
gentlemen who desire to receive it will please address the publisher,
148 Chestnut Street.

                             --------------

                      CHILDE HAROLD’S PILGRIMAGE;

                              _A Romaunt._

                             BY LORD BYRON.

    One Volume, 16mo. Beautifully illustrated with eight Engravings.
            Elegantly printed on the finest paper; and bound
                          in splendid binding.

                             --------------

CHILDE HAROLD, undoubtedly the greatest poem of its noble author, will
exist as an imperishable monument of his genius, and be admired as long
as there remains a love of the true and beautiful in poetry. Had it been
the only poem that Byron ever wrote, he would still have ranked amongst
the first of English poets.

From its acknowledged merit and great popularity, it is surprising that
a handsome edition should not have appeared before in the American
market. To supply this obvious want, and to furnish a splendid present
at a small price, which would be acceptable to every one, has been the
aim of the publisher. The present edition is issued in a convenient and
beautiful 16mo. size, printed with new, clear type, on paper of the
finest quality manufactured expressly for it. The illustrations, eight
in number, are taken from the _edition de luxe_, published by Murray in
London, designed by the first artists, and are the most beautiful wood
engravings ever executed in this country. The binding, either in cloth,
silk, or morocco, is executed in the very best and most tasty style. The
book is truly

                        A MOST SPLENDID PRESENT.

                             --------------

                                SKETCHES

                                   OF

                            IRISH CHARACTER;

                          BY MRS. S. C. HALL.

Splendidly illustrated with 60 engravings on steel and wood, engraved in
the finest style. One volume, royal 8vo. Richly bound in cloth, extra
gilt edges, $3 50, or magnificently bound in morocco, $4 00. With the
steel engravings coloured, $4 50.

Of these delightful sketches it is almost unnecessary to speak, as the
extensive sale of the work, and the unqualified praise it has received
both in England and this country, have now classed it among standard
works of its class. For profound knowledge of the Irish character, for
depth of thought, for sprightliness and vivacity of style, for a deep
knowledge of the main springs of the human heart either excited by love
or anger, and for the art of touching the soul and exciting the sympathy
of the reader for her heroes or heroines in her tales of passion and
violence, these sketches stand unrivalled, drawn by a woman, and in such
a style as only a woman of so great power as Mrs. Hall could do. The
illustrations, typography, and binding, are in keeping with the high
character of the book, and render it

                       A TRULY SPLENDID PRESENT.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




 ● Transcriber’s Notes:
    ○ Missing or obscured punctuation was corrected.
    ○ Unbalanced quotation marks were left as the author intended.
    ○ Typographical errors were silently corrected.
    ○ Spelling was made consistent when a predominant form was found in
      this book; otherwise it was not changed.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Travels and Extraordinary
Adventures of Bob the Squirre, by Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TRAVELS, ADVENTURES OF BOB THE SQUIRREL ***

***** This file should be named 55856-0.txt or 55856-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/5/8/5/55856/

Produced by MFR, Barry Abrahamsen and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This book was
produced from images made available by the HathiTrust
Digital Library.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

